OBJECTIVE OF THE GAME:
The first objective is to release and play into position certain cards to 
build up each foundation, in sequence and in suit, from the ace through the
king. The ultimate objective is to build the whole pack onto the foundations,
and if that can be done, the Solitaire game is won.


RANK OF CARDS
The rank of cards in Solitaire games is: 
K (high), Q, J, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, A (low).

THE CARDS
The game is played with 52 cards.
There are four suits, diamond, spades, clubs, hearts.
Each suit has the numbers Ace, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, Jack, Queen, King.

THE DEAL
There are four different types of piles in Solitaire:
The Tableau:
Seven piles that make up the main table.

The Foundations: 
Four piles on which a whole suit or sequence must be built up. 
The four aces are the bottom card or base of the foundations. 
The foundation piles are hearts, diamonds, spades, and clubs.

The Stock (or "Hand") Pile: 
If the entire pack is not laid out in a tableau at the beginning of a game, 
the remaining cards form the stockpile from which additional cards are
brought into play according to the rules.

The Talon (or "Waste") Pile: 
Cards from the stockpile that have no place in the tableau or on foundations
are laid face up in the waste pile. To form the tableau, seven piles need to
be created. Starting from left to right, place the first card face up to make
the first pile, deal one card face down for the next six piles. Starting again
from left to right, place one card face from up on the second pile and deal
one card face down on piles three through seven. Starting again left to right,
place one card face up on the third pile and deal one card face down on piles
four through seven. Continue this pattern until pile seven has one card facing
up on top of a pile of six cards facing down.

The remaining cards form the stock (or "Hand") pile and are placed above the
tableau.

When starting out, the foundations and waste pile do not have any cards.


THE PLAY
The initial array may be changed by "building" - transferring cards among the
face-up cards in the tableau. Certain cards of the tableau can be played at
once, while others may not be played until certain blocking cards are removed.
For example, of the seven cards facing up in the tableau, if one is a nine and
another is a ten, you may transfer the nine on top of the ten to begin
building that pile in sequence if they are different colours. Since you have
moved the nine from one of the seven piles, you have now unblocked a face down
card, this card can be turned over and is now in play.

As you transfer cards in the tableau and begin building sequences if you
uncover an ace, the ace should be placed in one of the foundation piles.
The foundations get built by suit and in sequence from ace to king.

Continue to transfer cards on top of each other in the tableau in sequence.
If you can't move any more face up cards, you can utilize the stockpile by
flipping over the top three cards and placing them in the Talon. Only the card
on top (free of other cards) can be played in the foundations or tableau.
If you cannot play the card in the tableau or the foundations piles, turn over
another three cards in the stockpile. When the Stoke is empty turn over the
Talon and thereby making a new Stoke.

If a vacancy in the tableau is created by the removal of cards elsewhere it is
called a "space", and it is of major importance in manipulating the tableau.
If a space is created, it can only be filled in with a king. Filling a space
with a king could potentially unblock one of the face down cards in another
pile in the tableau.

Continue to transfer cards in the tableau and bring cards into play from the
stockpile until all the cards are built in suit sequences in the foundation
piles to win!

You lose if you turn over the Talon making it to the Stoke three times
without making a move.



